=head1 NAME

ChordPro::A2Crd - convert lyrics and chords to ChordPro

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  perl -MA2Crd -e run -- [ options ] [ file ... ]

(But no one does that.)

When the associated B<chordpro> program has been installed correctly:

  chordpro --a2crd [ options ] [ file ... ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<This program>, referred to as B<a2crd>, will read a text file
containing the lyrics of one or many songs with chord information
written visually above the lyrics. This is often referred to as I<crd>
data. B<a2crd> will then generate equivalent ChordPro output.

Typical a2crd input:

    Title: Swing Low Sweet Chariot

	  D          G    D
    Swing low, sweet chariot,
			   A7
    Comin' for to carry me home.
	  D7         G    D
    Swing low, sweet chariot,
		  A7       D
    Comin' for to carry me home.

      D                       G          D
    I looked over Jordan, and what did I see,
			   A7
    Comin' for to carry me home.
      D              G            D
    A band of angels comin' after me,
		  A7       D
    Comin' for to carry me home.

Note that the output from the conversion will generally need some
additional editing to be useful as input to ChordPro.

B<a2crd> is a wrapper around L<ChordPro::A2Crd>, which
does all of the work.

B<chordpro> will read one or more text files containing the lyrics of
one or many songs plus chord information. B<chordpro> will then
generate a photo-ready, professional looking, impress-your-friends
sheet-music suitable for printing on your nearest printer.

B<chordpro> is a rewrite of the Chordii program.

For more information about the ChordPro file format, see
L<https://www.chordpro.org>.

=head1 COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--output=>I<FILE> (short: B<-o>)

Designates the name of the output file where the results are written
to. Default is standard output.

=item B<--version> (short: B<-V>)

Prints the program version and exits.

=item B<--help> (short: -h)

Prints a help message. No other output is produced.

=item B<--manual>

Prints the manual page. No other output is produced.

=item B<--ident>

Shows the program name and version.

=item B<--verbose>

Provides more verbose information of what is going on.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Johan Vromans C<< <jv at CPAN dot org > >>

=head1 SUPPORT

A2Crd is part of ChordPro (the program). Development is hosted on
GitHub, repository L<https://github.com/ChordPro/chordpro>.

Please report any bugs or feature requests to the GitHub issue tracker,
L<https://github.com/ChordPro/chordpro/issues>.

A user community discussing ChordPro can be found at
L<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/chordpro>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010,2018 Johan Vromans,

This program is free software. You can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

